- Well, welcome to the Get Fit with Jodelle podcast.
I am as usual, Jodelle, and as usual,
I am thrilled to have Dr. Pete, Dr. Raymond Pete
here with me again.
I always love podcasting with you, Dr. Pete,
you're a wealth of information.
And I know my listeners enjoy it too,
because I asked for questions
and I always get a slew of questions for you, Dr. Pete.
So once again, you guys,
if you're not familiar with Dr. Raymond Pete,
please go to raypete.com,
that's R-A-Y-P-E-A-T.com.
And you can learn a vast amount of knowledge
about an individual with a vast amount of knowledge.
He's got lots of articles, blogs, books
that will blow your mind.
And he's been doing this longer
than most people have been alive.
So at least who are listening to this podcast.
So he knows a thing or two,
he's not one of these 30 something year olds on YouTube
telling people what to do.
He's been around long enough to understand
how the body works, how hormones work.
And he also has a passion for educating others,
which I love, so Dr. Pete, welcome.
- Thank you.
- Yeah, it's great to have you.
So we got a slew of questions in
when I field it out for questions on YouTube.
But before we dive into those,
I really wanna tell you how much I enjoyed
your most recent newsletter
on injecting the spike protein from a coronavirus.
And it was just really interesting
because there were so many things in there
I wasn't familiar with.
And so you guys, if you haven't checked out
Dr. Pete's newsletter,
you can go to raypeatsnewsletter@gmail.com
and you can ask for that.
You can request it to either be emailed to you
or sent through the mail and it's very affordable.
And so you can get information by emailing
at raypeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
I highly recommend it because I always look forward to it.
When I see it in my inbox, I always learn something.
So can I ask you, Dr. Pete,
it was shown in studies when they inject this spike protein
to cause the lungs to fail.
Why was that?
- Oh yeah, it's a whole series of things actually,
but that was 2005, I think, when that was published.
When that was published around that time,
it has been tested in various ways
and they simply saw that the lungs developed edema
and fibrosis and the animal died
because the lungs were full of water
and starting to become scar tissue-like.
But there were people who continued along that line
trying to identify exactly what the spike protein was doing.
But the most relevant fact is that
before the pandemic began for 15 years,
people had been talking about how deadly it is
to have the spike protein in your body.
Yet they went ahead making that a vaccine so-called.
Around 2005, trying to identify just what was happening,
but looking primarily at the lungs at that time,
they saw that the body formed antibodies to the spike protein
and the antibodies against it were also toxic to the lungs.
And the antibody to the anti-spike protein antibody
so you get a series, your body reacts first
to the spike protein making an antibody
which itself is harmful to the lungs
and then your body has that harmful antibody
that we're producing
and it makes an antibody to that antibody
and the antibody to the antibody
looks at, has the same shape as the spike protein
because the first antibody formed a mirror image of it.
The second antibody makes a mirror image
of the first antibody which turns out
to be an exact copy of the spike protein.
So when you insert an unknown antigen,
people at that time had essentially no idea
what your immune system was doing.
The first wave of antibodies itself is toxic
but your body keeps like all of a mirror image
of your mirrors that keeps making antibodies
against the antibodies and against those antibodies
so you have a constant like an echo
going through your antibody system
and every alternate antibody wave resembles in shape
this starting thing that evoked the immune response.
So at the time I was teaching immunology 1979,
that was a fairly new observation.
It was always happening but people just hadn't thought
about what it means to have waves of neutralizing
and imitating antibodies for me every time
you are exposed to an antigen.
- So if these spike proteins are damaging
and cause the lungs to fail,
what about people that get the vaccine
and then they get the second shot
and then they get the boosters
and they continue to bombard their body
with the spike protein,
what's gonna happen to the body
with that much exposure to spike protein?
- Can't do anything but get worse.
When you see the fundamental damage within the lungs
and that isn't looking at any of our antibodies
at any of our other basic toxic reactions to it.
For example, spike protein is when it's exposed
to the bloodstream, taking it all through the body,
enters and is reproduced in the endothelial cells
lining the blood vessels all the way through your body,
through every organ and that sets up,
your body sees that foreign material is being produced
on the lining of your blood vessels
and that causes first irritation reaction
like histamine and serotonin and it causes platelets
to begin clumping and sticking to the abnormal site
and the platelets release histamine and serotonin.
The serotonin activates further clotting processes
that spread through the body.
So one of the worst tendencies being exposed to the vaccine
which puts the spike protein on all of your blood vessel
lining cells, the basic reaction is it causes diffuse pots
to form and in reaction to that then you're consuming
your platelets and the platelets cause small circulating clots
which can block the veins and capillaries
in the brain causing strokes.
Similar things happen in the heart.
Ovaries concentrate at the highest level, the spike protein
and so clotting and the consequent inflammation
affects all of these organs.
- Okay, so definitely wanna reconsider maybe
how much spike protein people are getting exposed to.
Now your newsletter also mentioned
how ionizing radiation such as that comes from wifi
and smartphones also creates cytokines and inflammation.
Are we more susceptible to illnesses and viruses
depending on how much exposure
to EMF radiation we receive daily?
- Yeah, anything recognized by the body is as harmful.
We'll start releasing things such as histamine
and serotonin and then the serotonin
and the coagulating, clumping platelets
release many other harmful pro-coagulant
and anti-coagulant materials.
So at some point you run out of platelets
and hemorrhage becomes the problem.
- Hmm.
- One of the doctors who died fairly quickly
after vaccination had a very rare condition
in which he simply, they said they had never seen anything
like it, had a platelet count of one or zero.
Only 100,000 and so everything became a leaky hemorrhage.
- Yeah, I knew an individual that passed away from COVID-19.
Now I don't know if this individual was vaccinated or not
but I can tell you that this individual
was very, very EMF focused.
Like they were always around the device,
always around a lot of different smartphone technology
and smart technology.
Their whole house was smart technology.
Everything was run by the phone and stuff.
So I'm just wondering if that made that person's body
more susceptible to actually having a worse case
and then ending up on a ventilator
and then ending up dying just from the act
of living a stressful life.
- Everything that doesn't please the body meeting its needs
becomes a promoter of inflammation, coagulation
and potential hemorrhage development eventually
in the long run of fibrosis and tissue degeneration.
The angiotensin system is thought of a blood pressure
regulator primarily but angiotensin has a series
of enzymes, slight stress or damage will cause you
to produce the peptide called angiotensin two
which spreads around your body activating the inflammatory
and blood vessel contraction system.
But we also have a limiting enzyme which destroys
that pro-inflammatory peptide and blood pressure eraser.
This is called the ACE2 proteolytic enzyme
which the COVID people call a receptor
for the spike protein of the virus.
That's how the virus primarily gets in your cells
is by binding to and inactivating the enzyme
that inactivates the pro-inflammatory angiotensin peptide.
So the evil of the virus is that it knocks out
our own basic anti-inflammatory system right at the root.
The ACE2 enzyme that is known as the receptor
for the virus is our primary defense against inflammation.
So people looking at the nature of the disease
even though the function of the ACE2 enzyme
have been known for more than 10 years,
people were developing patents on injecting,
producing in the lab large amounts of ACE2 enzyme
because it destroys the endotensin inflammatory peptide.
So it was a very good idea for a treatment
of anything like the, it would work for anything
from high blood pressure to the COVID virus to cancer
because inflammation is at the root of all of those.
- Absolutely, like inflammation is essentially chaos
in their body and so yeah, if we can calm the chaos
from all its many facets that it comes at us,
I'm pretty sure we can have a more robust immune system.
So, well, I really appreciated your newsletter.
What were you gonna say?
- Just that many treatments are known to give a boost
to our natural production of ACE2 enzyme
that inhibits the inflammatory system and yeah.
- What are those treatments that you would recommend?
- The Chinese started with, it was known to them
as an anti-serotonin agent used somewhat
like an antihistamine drugs but it turned out
to be very effective against the COVID infection
and that detected an anti-inflammatory,
anti-serotonin thing was helpful.
They found that antihistamines and aspirin in fact,
anything anti-inflammatory and many anti-coagulants
because inflammation leads to coagulation,
coagulation amplifies inflammation.
So, the basic insight about 15 years ago
is that getting your ACE2 protective insulin
to increase, that turns out to be the essence
of treating and curing COVID.
The studies that they've given primarily anti-inflammatory
and anti-coagulant treatments including aspirin
and antihistamines, those studies showed
if they did it quickly, during the time
that our government for the last year and a half
has been telling the public that there is no treatment
for early COVID, all they can do is wait
until you can't breathe and then go to the hospital.
And if you really can't breathe, they'll put you
on a ventilator and just being on a ventilator
for a week or two is enough to kill you
by destroying your lungs.
So, by telling doctors of the world
that there is no treatment for the early stages of COVID,
telling doctors not to treat with any of the known drugs
but through producing fraudulent research,
to say that it is more harmful to use hydroxychloroquine
than to use nothing, a real campaign
to prevent any treatment other than producing oxygen
when it's too late to cure it.
But the studies that went directly
to the anti-coagulant drug had 70 or 80% survival
versus almost no survival ones that were intubated.
- Yeah, 'cause I was noticing, I was kind of thinking back
to like they're putting people on a ventilator
but in order to do that, they have to give them
a benzodiazepine, which from my understanding
lowers immune function.
So, I mean, if you're giving your patient a benzo
and you expect them to fight through a virus,
they're not gonna be able to do it, right?
- Yeah, they basically make them unconscious
and then pump oxygen in.
For example, two German hospitals in the same city
one of them was following American procedures,
giving tube-force oxygen to their patients
as the basic treatment.
They had 60% mortality in that hospital
and right across the city, a very similar hospital
happened to have a doctor who refused
to put his people on forced ventilation,
gave them just a cannula in the nose with enriched oxygen
and he had essentially 100% survival.
- Wow, that's awesome.
Well, I just really wanted to bring up your newsletter
because on the subject of immunology,
it was really wonderful.
So people need to really get that
if they haven't subscribed to that yet.
So we'll jump into some questions here.
The first one we had an individual who asked,
can you please ask Dr. Pete
after of course nutrition and thyroid
and youth promoting hormones,
is there any way to reopen growth plates
so that someone can grow taller?
Does he believe the idea that growth plates close?
- There are some animal observations
that suggests that that can happen
but it hasn't been studied in detail.
And for example, iguanas which have bone anatomy
more or less similar to mammals,
they've banded them, measured their weight and length.
And when they went back after a year or so of famine,
they found that the whole iguana, bones and all
had become shorter.
In a symmetrical way, the bones were revised
to go with a smaller animal.
So that suggests that under the right circumstances,
fully mature bone can ungrow.
In many people with some hypothyroidism,
there is enough immature bone around the growth plates
and things aren't turned off until maybe around the age of 50.
When I was in my forties,
I had experimented taking thyroid progesterone, the HCA,
and notice that some of my physical characteristics
changed during that period.
But when we moved out of the house,
there had been marks on the door frames
that made 11 years earlier when I was 14 versus 52 or 53.
And I had grown an inch sometimes during my forties,
late forties probably.
And I mentioned that other people,
especially people who were slightly taller than average,
told me that they hadn't finished growth
until they were in their mid forties.
- You know, I would believe that
because I was always 5'9" when I was in my teens and 20s.
And now when I tell people I'm 5'9", they go,
"I don't think you're 5'9",
I think you're taller than that,
but I have never measured myself.
But I just wonder if maybe I have grown over the years,
'cause I don't seem to fit that mold of the 5'9" or whatever.
- Yeah, but my experience with the marks door frames,
I was about 50 at the end of that period.
But still, having...
(upbeat music)
(silence)
- Okay, so Rhonda asks,
"Can you discuss reverse T3 and what to do about it?
Can you get reverse T3 from using too much T3 medication?"
So what about reverse T3?
- Yeah, T3, the active hormone,
can't be changed in the reverse T3.
And one of my first eye-opening observations
in the thyroid function was
at the University of Oregon Medical School.
A patient was brought in completely unconscious
in a mixodema coma.
And her doctor had been giving her
100 microgrammages of T4 synthroid,
and she got worse, more hypothyroid.
So he progressively increased it to 200 and 300.
When he reached 500 microgrammages of T4 per day,
she entered the coma.
And a doctor in the hospital had the insight
that even in particular,
because of the effects of estrogen on the liver,
estrogen blocks the conversion of T4 to T3
and turns it into reverse T3.
So he put her on pure T3 around,
I think it was 25 microgrammages per day,
zero thyroxin, and immediately she recovered.
All she needed was a more balanced ratio
between T4 and T3.
And when your stress hormones rise,
happens because you don't get enough T3
and the sugar and carbon dioxide metabolism are suppressed.
The T4 excess turns into reverse T3
and turns off your metabolism.
The higher the stress acting on the thyroxin
in the absence of T3 turns fairly massive amounts
of the T4 in the blocking reverse T3.
- So if they're supplementing T3,
they don't have anything to worry about that
converting to reverse T3,
but they still need to dial in their stress
because just that act of always releasing cortisol
and making new estrogen from stress
could cause more reverse T3,
even in the midst of like a T3 medication?
- Yeah, and lots of pharmacists and doctors
advise if a person is prescribed T3,
it's common to advise them to take their pill,
25 or 50 micrograms, whatever's prescribed,
for them to take that pill
on an empty stomach in the morning.
And what happens then is that your body
gets approximately 25 times higher T3
at that moment than is physiological
because you might produce 50 micrograms
in the whole day.
But if you take a breakfast on an empty stomach,
it almost all goes immediately into your bloodstream.
It is perceived as a toxic excess.
And so your liver increases enzymes
and your liver begins excreting,
inactivating the high level of T3 in the morning.
And after getting your liver accustomed to doing that,
by nightfall, 12 to 15 hours later,
your body is experiencing extreme hypothyroidism
because you have trained the liver
to excrete it 25 times faster than it should.
- So they really need to, how would you recommend dosing?
It sounds like they need to split up the dose
maybe twice a day or maybe they shouldn't take a huge dose
first thing in the morning.
- Definitely, yeah.
I experienced that myself taking my pill only in the morning
but I developed an extremely erratic heart rhythm
and in the middle of this interrupted heartbeat,
I chewed up a 10 microgram tablet of T3
and within about 15 seconds of chewing the pill,
my heart was perfectly rhythmic.
And after that, I recommended that people
just take a little bite off their T3 tablet
all during the day so they can get the approximately
right amount during the day,
but never anything like 20 or 25 micrograms at one gulp.
- And so, yeah, so carry that little tablet
and kind of gnaw on it,
but should you not still do it with a meal?
Should it always be kind of on an empty stomach
or is it okay to do it with two?
- Oh, yeah, you can go by how you feel
and most people get away with, for example,
eight or 10 micrograms with every meal
and maybe five or 10 micrograms at bedtime.
- Okay, so Katya, I think part of her question
got cut off on YouTube,
but I think she's talking about a person in her life
who has gained weight and has edema more on the left side.
She's 17 years old and two months ago,
she was almost 90 kilograms.
Now she is more.
She was on T4 and T3 for two months,
but now just T3 now, she does have a mitral prolapse
and her heart is now,
and heart now is on upper size limit.
She's on vitamin E, D3, K2 and T3.
One liter of milk a day, she doesn't like liver.
How can she lose weight?
So apparently she's gained some weight
and it sounds like her thyroid is really on the fritz.
- Yeah, the mitral prolapse is very, very common
when your thyroid and progesterone are low.
So she should keep a close watch
on both thyroid and progesterone.
Keep your oxidative metabolism going.
The metabolism of sodium and calcium is very important.
Calcium, in particular,
helps to suppress parathyroid hormone.
And parathyroid hormone works pretty much the same
as the absence of thyroid hormone.
It turns off your mitochondrial energy production.
So you want to get your mitochondria
producing carbon dioxide and metabolizing sugar
and fat effectively.
Thyroid itself is being blocked by high parathyroid hormone.
So taking maybe two liters of low fat milk every day,
four or 5,000 international units of vitamin D per day
and adjusting the dose of thyroid,
emphasizing the T3 component
according to how it affects your heart rate and temperature.
You want your temperature to rise
towards normal by the middle of the day.
- Okay, and it sounds like they didn't put
that she's on progesterone.
So that might be something for her to consider
as trying progesterone
because I didn't see that anywhere in her protocol.
So there you go.
- The liver's reaction to progesterone
is similar to that of T3.
If you don't interrupt your progesterone intake
roughly once a month,
your liver starts excreting it faster and faster
and so it loses its effect.
So you want to reinforce your natural menstrual cycle
as you supplement the progesterone.
- Okay, Christopher asks,
there's been a big movement
against taking high vitamin A foods
and Ray Peat had said that he could not take vitamin E
at all anywhere near his lips,
otherwise he'd get a migraine.
How can you explain vitamin A toxicity?
Thank you.
- Oh, before that happened,
the vitamin A products, for example,
almost all of them were made in the US
and I took 50 to 100,000 units a day with no problem.
But around the time that the vitamin A industry
and vitamins in general moved to be produced in China,
that was when I developed the extreme sensitivity
to apparent allergies or something in vitamin A.
So that, I haven't tried synthetic vitamin A
any time in this period, it was so awful,
but it could be that the Chinese have improved
their vitamin A technique.
But since the 1930s,
there has been a lot of mythology
about the dangers of vitamin A excess.
And most of it is completely unscientific.
Animal studies, for example, found that
a moderate excess of vitamin A in developing chicks
caused their brain to stay outside of their skull
when they had and adding vitamin E
to the system stopped that from happening.
And so they were showing that the excess vitamin A
was autooxidizing, catalyzing its own oxidation.
And the oxidized product was what was toxic.
So if there's a toxic reaction to vitamin A,
it's most likely in vitamin E deficiency.
- Good to know.
Okay, so then we have one individual asked,
how can we increase our intelligence?
Apparently this individual wants to get smarter.
So how would you say we do that?
- Making sure that your thyroid function is optimal
and the good balanced vitamin intake
in just a matter of hours and lasting for a day or two,
a good dose of vitamin B1 can greatly
increase a person's learning power.
When I was teaching English classes in Mexico,
they were evening classes and the people would arrive
poorly nourished and tired after work.
And so I made them high protein cookies
spiked with vitamin B1 and have a pre-class snack
of cookies and coffee.
And right from that moment, they became good students.
Before that, they could seem to learn something
during the hour, but they wouldn't remember it the next day.
- I'm all about protein.
I really think that just the amino acids
that converts from protein
really can help boost brain capacity.
So yeah, I'm with you on the high protein foods
like your little high protein cookies.
That sounds good.
All right.
- Yeah, one of my professors had just considered
the rabbit and the cat.
He told his students at the university
that they should have a diet more like a cat than a rabbit
if they want their brain to work well.
- I like that.
I'm gonna have to use that with clients.
- Okay, so me free to says Crohn's solution, please.
Thank you, Dr. Pete.
So something to be a solution for Crohn's disease.
- Oh, the whole thing starting with making sure
your hormones aren't sensitizing you to mild irritants
and then checking your foods to see
that they're well selected and well appropriately cooked.
And each type of food can be very peculiar
in how you allergic to react to it.
For example, a person with a sensitive intestine
might be able to sometimes to eat a raw apple,
but applesauce can cause extreme colitis
because every little change in the way you cook a food
increase or decrease the allergenicity.
Thyroid and progesterone as well as the adrenal
glucocorticoids are essential
for avoiding chronic inflammatory diseases.
- What do you feel about bile?
Like how big of a factor is really making sure
people are dialing in their bile to help with things
like irritable bowel and Crohn's and colitis?
- Oh yeah, estrogen is the main thing
that slows down liver metabolism
and changes the balance of components in the bile
tending to create stones.
And probably the same things that cause
stone accumulation in the bladder and kidneys
and soft tissues, hardening of the arteries and so on.
Those same things such as a calcium deficient,
vitamin D deficient bile,
those will help to create a stone deposition.
But high estrogen unopposed is very close
to the whole range of gallbladder and liver symptoms.
- I completely agree because the people that I'll see
come in with, they've had their gallbladders removed,
you can tell they've had high estrogen,
excess estrogen dominance for a long time.
But ironically, the bile is also what binds on
to that old estrogen that's going through the gut
and pulls it out.
So if their bile is not working because of high estrogen,
then it's like this vicious circle
'cause then they're getting this old recycled estrogen
going back into the system, yeah?
- Yeah, and a good high fiber diet is one way
to catch the excreted estrogen and get it out of the body
preventing its reabsorption.
And thyroid and progesterone are the main hormones
making the gallbladder work.
- Cool, yeah, I'm a bile-philiac.
I love talking about bile,
so that was something I had to throw in there.
Okay, so it says, does Dr. Pete know
if taking liquid vitamin D3 combined with vitamin K2 orally
allows both vitamins to be absorbed
or does one inhibit the absorption of other than others?
- I don't think either one seriously interferes
with the other.
- Okay, yeah, 'cause my understanding was K2
helps the vitamin D get absorbed, correct?
- Well, yeah, if you have a little bit of fat on the diet,
it's all going to get absorbed before it leaves your body.
If you have an extremely high fiber diet,
you might lose most of your oil and vitamins
stuck to the fibrous foods.
- Ellie Z asks, what are typical symptoms
of taking too much thyroid?
- You get, the first thing you usually notice
is you're easily winded just getting up
and walking across the room
might make you breathe noticeably harder.
And your hands tend to get pink and moist.
Hands and feet are as warm as the rest of your body.
And your temperature stays very close to the normal.
If you're hyper thyroid, sometimes your body temperature
will stay a little above the optimal normal.
But the heat production you just make it
pretty well by sweating and breathing harder.
- Julian asks, can you ask Ray about using T3
and its effects on increasing testosterone
and the androgen system in males?
Thank you.
- Yeah, the T3 lowers aromatase
and elevated aromatase from stress is the main thing
that lowers testosterone while decreasing
the whole androgen effect, giving too much estrogen.
- Okay, so T3 actually can help the aromatase inhibition
and so can it help increase testosterone?
- Yes.
- Okay, great.
But you were mentioning if they don't
maybe take it with a test.
Let's say they're taking an exogenous testosterone
and they're not taking T3, is there more of a chance
that they're going to convert to estrogen
with that exogenous testosterone?
- Yeah, T3 and aspirin and pregnant or progesterone
will all help to inhibit aromatase
and make the testosterone more effective.
- Very good, okay.
This one is a question from my own daughter.
She loves listening to your podcast.
She's seven now and she wanted to know your thoughts
on the COVID vaccine for kids as well as vaccines
in general for kids such as whooping cough
or the hepatitis shot they give at birth.
The hepatitis shot they give at birth.
What are your thoughts on all the different vaccines
for kids?
- Oh, I think all of them are given too soon
and without justification.
For certain vaccines at certain conditions,
each vaccine, you can make somewhat of a case,
but what has happened medically is they give
something like 60 or 70 different vaccine antigens
to every kid and they do it mindlessly.
In the case of smallpox,
they used vaccination intelligently to close in
on any outbreak and eliminate that outbreak
one region at a time.
Just took a couple of years
to eliminate forever the smallpox disease.
That wasn't profitable to the vaccine industry
and no one wants to repeat that horrible experience
of totally losing a market for a vaccine
by using it intelligently.
If you put vaccines into a system
that was looking at the general health of the population
rather than the health of the corporations
that make the vaccines,
you would have entirely different effects.
The problem is with the politics and the profit motive,
which is absolutely opposite to the motive
of them improving the health.
If you use every vaccine intelligently,
you can eliminate all of these diseases.
- I love that you say that,
you're not completely anti-vax,
but it's like if they would just use them intelligently,
they could have some validity
versus the way that they're just cramming them in children
as quickly as possible and way too young, like you mentioned.
So, yeah.
Yeah, in the case of smallpox,
the first widely used vaccine, that was intelligent.
The latest vaccines, the nucleic acid RNA vaccines
are not even vaccines.
They're so focused on the profit motive
that they went absolutely against the health
status of the population.
Statistically, you can look at the number of vaccines
increasing starting about 1980 and the health of the public,
especially the people who were children
getting many, many vaccines.
There's a very close correspondence
between the tremendous decline in American health
and the overuse of vaccines.
But the current so-called vaccine is like a caricature
in which they actively came out against treating
the COVID virus rationally
and came out in favor of giving the vaccine
even to people who had almost a zero chance
of developing any harm from the vaccine.
It turned into just an open, shameless funneling money
from the public to these pharmaceutical companies
by way of the Fauci administration.
Robert Kennedy's new book goes into tremendous detail
on these business misconduct of many sorts
in business, government, the military,
various branches of government involvement
of the CIA and the Pentagon in designing our reaction
to an epidemic.
People who didn't pretend to have any knowledge
about health became leaders.
What they knew about was how to create business.
- Yeah, so do you know the title of his book?
I heard you mentioned that on another podcast.
Do you know the title of his book?
And I'll put it in the show notes.
- Yeah, it's the real Fauci, real Anthony Fauci.
- Okay.
- And then he names the subdivisions on Bill Gates,
the interactions of business and the pharmaceutical industry.
- Okay, interesting.
Okay, so we only have time for a couple more questions here.
And then if I didn't get to you or if I didn't get to you,
or questions on this podcast, don't worry, we'll get to them
on the next one 'cause I always try to keep them in the queue.
So Francesco says, "What does Ray think about HCG?"
He has on his website, he stated a couple of times
to be a positive since it raises progesterone.
Would it be useful to use HCG?
- HCG?
No, I don't think it's...
- I was gonna say, I don't remember reading that
on your stuff, but.
- I don't think it's ever safe enough to use.
- Yeah, agreed.
And I mean, I've seen people use it with no harm,
but also it's like you're injecting something
that's specifically for a pregnant woman
and expecting good results.
So yeah, okay.
So then it looks like NCGIRL9FI says,
"Why does Pregnanolone give me estrogen dominant symptoms?
Does it need to be taken cyclically with progesterone?
Thank you."
- Did she say what kind of progesterone?
- She was saying, why does Pregnanolone
give me estrogen dominant symptoms?
So she's taking Pregnanolone.
- Oh, there have been many people,
just in the last seven or eight years,
who report that for several of the major selling
Pregnanolones in the U.S.
having eaten more than a kilogram of Pregnanolone
aided by the spoonful for a year,
everything that I experienced was anti-estrogenic.
So the increase in the opposite symptoms
I've been hearing, for example, breast pain
and uterine cramps are very common symptoms.
And I think that means that a lot of the Pregnanolone
has been contaminated with traces of something
with an estrogen-like effect.
- Okay, very good.
Well, that is what we're gonna wrap up with today, Dr. Pete.
I'm just speaking for everyone when I say thank you so much
for always being willing to do these Q and A's
and answer questions.
'Cause as you know, there's a lot of people struggling
with false information or misinformation.
And so it's good to hear it from somebody
who has studied this relentlessly
and understands how the human body works.
So I just wanna give you a big thank you from myself
and all the listeners for your time today.
And you can check out that newsletter,
or you guys I mentioned, raypetesnewsletter@gmail.com.
Just email for that, make sure you pick that up,
either email or hard copy mailed to you
'cause it's well-worthy, a small investment.
And of course, anytime you wanna donate to Dr. Pete,
I think it would be a good thing
'cause he's very generous with his time.
So thank you once again, Dr. Pete.
We'll do this again soon.
And I hope that you stay well
and take care of yourself as you always do.
(upbeat music)
Hey, wanna know a secret tip
as to how to get past those late night sugar
and carb cravings?
Wish you could get rid of those evening ice cream
binges and popcorn feasts
and wish you were able to wine down without the wine.
Well, here's your secret tip.
You gotta block blue light.
Here's why.
Blue light from our devices, TVs, smartphones,
tablets, computers, after the sun goes down,
tells our brain it's noon.
And this is a really long day
because we already had a noon today.
So release cortisol and oh, by the way,
we need more food since this day is so long.
So just the action of blocking blue light
after the sun goes down
could actually thwart your cravings.
I mean, imagine it.
Imagine if you were living in prehistoric times
and you didn't have light after the sun goes down.
Would you really crave that piece of fruit
hanging on the tree?
No, you couldn't go find it.
So the secret to not eating so late at night
and not getting those late night carb cravings
is to block all that blue light.
That means dimming the house lights, yeah,
and maybe reading by candlelight
and not having your devices on.
But if your husband's not so keen on you
not Netflixing and chilling with him,
then it's time you get some Swanwick sleep glasses.
That's right, daytime blockers for those daylight screens,
but more importantly, blue light blocking glasses at night.
These are amber colored lenses
that block out all the blue lights.
You can still do your normal routine at night
of playing words with friends if you have to,
even though I don't want you on your device that much,
or watching TV with your loved ones
or whatever what's taking your attention
as far as blue light at night.
So to get your hands on a pair of Swannies
or my favorite blue light blocking glasses,
you're gonna go to swannwicksleep.com.
That's S-W-A-N-W-I-C-K, then the word sleep.com.
And type in my code FIT410.
That's F-I-T-F-O-R-10, the number 10.
F-I-T-F-O-R, the number 10.
And that's gonna get you 10% off
your very own amber colored blue light blocking glasses
or the daylight blocking glasses
if you find that you're one of those people
that has 16 different monitors
in front of you at your desk during the day.
What you do all day determines your night.
So get that insulin, that blood sugar, those carb cravings
under control by blocking that blue light
and taking control of your cravings once and for all.
(upbeat music)